add experiment precis user doc (#18)
ChameleonCloud/docs: source/technical/ep.rst

.. _experiment-precis:

==============================
Experiment Precis
==============================

.. _ep-introduction:

Introduction
____________

Chameleon records experiment setup (OpenStack) events that users performed on the testbed, such as creating leases, creating instances, and setting up networks. 

> Users can request their experiment records from Chameleon using their Chameleon credentials. A report on those experiment records is known as *Experiment Precis*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can request their experiment records from Chameleon using their Chameleon credentials. A report on those experiment records is known as the *Experiment Precis*. 
```

An *Experiment Precis* is bounded to a lease. Chameleon defines an *experiment* as a series of testbed setup (OpenStack) events a user performed under a lease of a project. 
Using *Experiment Precis*, users will be able to analyze, understand and even replay their experiments. 

.. warning::

>    The CEP service is **only** available at `CHI@UC <https://chi.uc.chameleoncloud.org>`_. 

Reviewer: I wouldn't use the CEP abbreviation here yet, unless you introduce it above like "The Chameleon Experiment Precis (CEP)..."

```suggestion
   The *Experiment Precis* service is **only** available at `CHI@UC <https://chi.uc.chameleoncloud.org>`_. 
```

   We will make it available at `CHI@TACC <https://chi.tacc.chameleoncloud.org>`_ soon.

> Currently, *Experiment Precis* is provided in json format. The following contents are included:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, *Experiment Precis* is provided in JSON format. The following contents are included:
```

.. code-block:: json

   {
       "experiment_precis_name": "The name of the experiment precis",
       "experiment_precis_id":  "The id of the experiment precis",
       "site": "Which Chameleon site the experiment was performed",
       "testbed_version": "The testbed version at the time the experiment started",
       "report_time_in_utc": "The datetime when the experiment precis was requested (in UTC)",
       "report_time_in_ct": "The datetime when the experiment precis was requested (in CT)",
       "events": "A list of events performed",
       "event_page": "The page number of the events",
       "event_page_size": "The page size of the events",
       "hardware": "Hardwares that were used during the experiment",
       "hardware_page": "The page number of the hardwares",
       "hardware_page_size": "The page size of the harwareds",
       "metric": "Metrics saved in Gnocchi",
       "metric_page": "The page number of the metrics",
       "metric_page_size": "The page size of the metrics"
   }
   
.. _ep-install:

Installation
_____________

> To request your experiment precis from Chameleon, you need to install *Chameleon Experiment Precis (cep) Client*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To request your experiment precis from Chameleon, you need to install the *Chameleon Experiment Precis (cep) Client*. 
```

To install ``cepclient`` on your local machine, run the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install cepclient
   
To test if ``cepclient`` is properly installed, run:

.. code-block:: bash

   cep --help
   
.. _ep-setup:

Setting up cep client
___________________________________________

> Before using *cep client*, you must configure the authentication related environment variables via ``source`` :ref:`the OpenStack RC script <cli-rc-script>` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using the *cep client*, you must configure the authentication-related environment variables via ``source`` :ref:`the OpenStack RC script <cli-rc-script>` 
```

   | 2018-10-18 09:21:02 | 2018-10-18 09:21:02 | 0fa88391-6b14-465d-a62c-91ad8f6eb920 | 0fa88391-6b14-465d-a62c-91ad8f6eb920 | 972b70aa-33ca-42fc-9d4e-e07b2b9df3c3 |
   | 2018-10-18 10:05:50 | 2018-10-18 10:05:50 | 93ffbb79-e732-4046-a49d-b223ff8f1bd5 | 93ffbb79-e732-4046-a49d-b223ff8f1bd5 | 9f91c7ac-212b-4d46-8f88-1e9db341f41a |
   +---------------------+---------------------+--------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
   
The *Experiment Preics* will be listed in the reverse order of *creation datetime*, i.e. the latest *Experiment Precis* is listed the first.

For more information, run:

.. code-block:: bash

   cep list --help

.. _ep-rename:

Rename experiment precis
_________________________

Initially, Chameleon sets the name of an *Experiment Precis* the same as its id. However, you can rename it for the convenience of future retrieving.
To rename an *Experiment Precis*, run the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   cep rename --name <new_name> <ep_id or ep_name>
   
.. tip::

>    Rename your experiment precis to a meaningful name will help you 1) mark your *special* experiment; 2) understand what the experiment is about; 3) retieve your exepriment precis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Renameing your experiment precis to a meaningful name will help you 1) mark your *special* experiment; 2) understand what the experiment is about; 3) retrieve your experiment precis.
```

For more information, run:

.. code-block:: bash

   cep rename --help
     
.. _ep-print:

Print experiment precis
________________________

Finally, you can retrieve all the details about your experiment by using the ``print`` command.

.. code-block:: bash
   
   cep print <ep_id or ep_name>
   

> The above command will print the requested experiment precis on your terminal in a compact format. To prettyprint the experiment precis, add ``--pretty`` to the command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above command will print the requested experiment precis on your terminal in a compact format. To pretty-print the experiment precis, add ``--pretty`` to the command.
```

	            "type": "node", 
	            "uid": "b0525159-5c95-4b71-83f2-b8d6bdd2acd2", 
	            "version": "53c90ef0512d5013ee30d431cd62e68bfd34d4ca"
	        }
	    ], 
	    "hardware_page": 0, 
	    "hardware_page_size": 25, 
	    "metric_page": 0, 
	    "metric_page_size": 25, 
	    "metrics": [
	        {
	            "instance_id": "44ad06ee-41d7-48f9-a52a-179030754707", 
	            "metric_id": "dd22e02386714516a913d966659617eb", 
	            "metric_name": "interface-eno1@if_dropped"
	        }, 
	        {
	            "instance_id": "44ad06ee-41d7-48f9-a52a-179030754707", 
	            "metric_id": "512ac94754b64906a12960d1f0a929c9", 
	            "metric_name": "interface-eno1@if_errors"
	        },
	         
	        ...
            
	        {
	            "instance_id": "44ad06ee-41d7-48f9-a52a-179030754707", 
	            "metric_id": "89cec271c0fb477b9e7bb37ad3df1331", 
	            "metric_name": "memory@memory.slab_recl"
	        }
	    ],  
	    "report_time_in_ct": "2018-10-19 11:06:51", 
	    "report_time_in_utc": "2018-10-19 16:06:51", 
	    "site": "CHI_DEV_UC", 
	    "testbed_version": "702d4d47ab21c890c0bb146f4e0256f618264487"
	}
	

> The ``events`` section is a list of testbed events in the order of event timestamp. The ``hardware`` section contains information of all the nodes that were used in the experiment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``events`` section is a list of testbed events ordered by event timestamp. The ``hardware`` section contains information of all the nodes that were used in the experiment. 
```

The hardware information is retrieved by using the same method as :ref:`the Resource Discovery <resource-discovery>`. The ``metrics`` section is a list of the metrics captured during the experiment. 
The *Experiemnt Precis* only contains the ``instance_id``, ``metric_id``, and ``metric_name`` in the ``metrics`` list. You can use :ref:`the openstack metric command line <retrieve-metric>` 
to get all the measurements of a particular metric over time for an instance. 
	
For more information, run:

.. code-block:: bash

   cep print --help
   
.. important::

>    Chameleon only keeps experiment precis that are created within **180 days**. 

Reviewer: I have no idea what the plural of "precis" is... but this should be plural.

Alternatively:
```suggestion
   Chameleon only keeps an experiment precis for **180 days**. 
```

   Please make sure to save your experiment precis you'd like to keep for a longer time by using ``cep print`` command.
   You can output it to a file and keep it as a record. 
   
__________________
Pagination
__________________

> In case of "large" experiment with large number of nodes and metrics, ``events``, ``hardwares``, and ``metrics`` are printed in pages. By default, the page number is set to 0 and the page size is set to 25. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of "large" experiment with large number of nodes and metrics, ``events``, ``hardwares``, and ``metrics`` are printed in pages. By default, the page number is set to 0 and the page size is set to 25. 
```
